targeting can be life or death for b2b
marketers as we're interested in
targeting a specific icp or list of
accounts which is what makes linkedin
ads so attractive and expensive
according to linkedin there are more
than 200 characteristics that you can
use to nail down your target audience
i'm sylvia perez and in today's video
i'm going to show you how to get started
with linkedin ads from creating your
first account to launching your first
campaign let's get into it and by the
way if you like content around b2b
advertising be sure to subscribe and
click on that bell icon to be notified
of future videos first thing we're going
to do is create our linkedin ads account
so go ahead and go to linkedin.com sign
in to your profile and then we're going
to kick things off from here and for
those of you that want to skip around
this video if you're revisiting this
video for a second time and you only
want to see a certain section go ahead
and check out the description box down
below where i outline all the different
video sections for you
once you're in your linkedin profile
you're gonna go ahead and click on
advertise here on the top right and then
once you do that it's gonna open up the
linkedin ads campaign manager and this
is where all the magic happens with
linkedin ads this is where you're gonna
build campaigns you know optimize
campaigns skill campaigns do all of your
ad operations around linkedin here now
go ahead and click on create on the top
left
account and then this is where we're
going to be able to actually create our
linkedin ads account so i highly
recommend the account name being the
company name so whether that's the
company name of your employer or for
your own business or for a client's
business whatever the case might be set
the account name as the company name so
in my case i'm gonna do add conversion
as my account name i'm going to leave my
currency to usd as that's the currency
that i operate in but you can set this
to whatever the currency is that's
relevant for your business
and then it's going to say here to
associate a linkedin page with your
account as optional that some campaigns
require a linkedin page to use
i highly recommend that every single
linkedin ads account that you create is
associated to a linkedin page you're
going to be very inhibited in terms of
the campaigns you can and cannot launch
if you don't have a page so really
recommend that this is more of a
mandatory thing versus an optional thing
so i'm going to go ahead and drop in my
linkedin page url here
and then i'm going to go ahead and click
save
and now we've created our first linkedin
ads account to go ahead and finalize the
account setup process go ahead and click
on your account name on the top right
then click on the billing center and
this is where we're going to be able to
enter in our payment information really
important that we take care of this now
so as we launch campaigns we don't have
our campaigns get paused due to failure
to process payment so go ahead and add
in a credit card by clicking add credit
card here
and go ahead and enter in your payment
information i'm going to pause the video
here and finish this so that way we have
our payment finalized once you finalize
your payment you will see that you're
going to be listed here as the primary
billing contact for the account if you
ever need to make revisions in the
future such as updating your credit card
you can do so by clicking manage credit
card here and making those different
adjustments so now that our billing
information is finalized we're ready to
go we can start to use our linkedin ads
account in its full capacity and be able
to launch campaigns and then our card
information on file will get charged for
the ads that we run
now i'm gonna go ahead and walk you
through the linkedin ads account and go
through some common scenarios of things
that you're gonna probably find yourself
having to be done so for example if you
click on the account name on the top
right
if you ever need to change your account
name you can do that by clicking edit
account details you can change it to
whatever you'd like if you ever need to
add somebody to your linkedin ads
account you can click on manage access
here and then click edit and then you
can add a new user to your account
important to note that they do need to
have a linkedin profile in order to add
them you would just go ahead and search
up their name
and then add them to your account with
whatever level of permissions that you'd
like them to have
another example of something that you
can find yourself needing to be done in
linkedin is if you ever need to leave an
account let's say you're
no longer part of a company and you you
don't want to be a part of that linkedin
ads account anymore you can actually
click leave account here and it'll
remove you from this account another way
as well is if you need to remove
somebody from your linkedin ads account
that is no longer
supposed to have permission to it is
they will show up as a user of the
linkedin ads account here and you can
click on edit and actually remove their
access to your account
now that we created our linkedin ads
account let's talk about campaign groups
now it's important to note that every
single linkedin ads account follows the
same exact structure you first have
campaign groups and then within those
campaign groups you have campaigns and
then within those campaigns you have ads
so every account is going to follow the
same structure of group campaign ad now
it's important to note when you created
your linkedin ads account linkedin
created this new campaign group for you
automatically by default if you actually
click on these three dots here and click
manage you can actually adjust this
campaign group name to something a
little bit more specific and helpful for
you you can adjust the status of every
group to active paused or archived you
can set a start and end date for the
group if you let's say there's a
specific timeline in mind and you can
also set a start and end date with a
budget this is a little bit more useful
for a group that's dedicated to
something like a live event or a virtual
conference now
important to note
how you create your campaign groups is a
thousand percent up to you and what
makes the most sense what's going to
allow you to organize your linkedin ads
account in a way that is scalable right
you really want to keep things simple i
always say you cannot scale complicated
so how you go about creating your groups
really the things you want to keep in
mind here is there's a couple of
different use cases so some people will
create a group by stage of funnel so one
group can be top of funnel another could
be middle funnel another one could be
bottom of funnel and then within each
group they'll have different campaigns
that you know target people within those
stages of the funnel another common
example of using groups is based on
content type or offer so you can have
one group for gated content another
group for demo requests and then another
group for free trial and then you have
all the campaigns that associate that
offer and try to drive that offer within
that group
another example of how you can create
your groups is based on account list or
region so you could have like north
america and then you know whatever the
the name of the the accounts are
so a lot of different use cases 100 up
to you just think about you know
as you think through your groups here
what are the goals that you have within
your b2b organization
whether it's you know driving a certain
amount of pipeline by based on account
whether it's you know trying to drive
volume based on segments so maybe you
want to create a group one is emerging
one is mid-market one is enterprise and
you have different campaigns that roll
up underneath
each objective but you really want to
break out your groups in a way that's
going to allow you to very easily
report on how the campaigns and ads in
those groups are lining up to that
overall goal so in my case to keep it
really really simple i'm going to do it
based on offer so i'm actually going to
rename my campaign group here and i'm
going to call it
content
and i'm going to use this for
purely driving content
so i'm going to go ahead and
save this
and now i've adjusted that campaign name
if you want to create a new group you
can just click create campaign group and
it'll open up that same wizard where you
can create additional campaign groups
now that we wrapped up our campaign
groups and you set it up in a way that
makes sense for your organization let's
go ahead and move on to the next step
which is going to be tracking now it's
important to note we're front loading a
lot of the account asset creation right
now and the last step we're going to get
into is building our campaigns and the
reason we're doing it in this way is
that when we go to build our campaigns
we have everything set up all the
foundations in place so we can just
build as many campaigns as we want and
not kind of have to you know work
backwards so with that being said we are
going to
get into installing linkedin's insight
tag and setting up conversion tracking
now every ad channel has their own
variation of a pixel linkedin calls
theirs the insight tag so if you
actually click on insight tag this is
where we're going to be able to grab
that code to be able to install it on
our website now it's super important to
understand that linkedin's insight tag
is different from a lot of the other ad
channels out there in regards to the
amount of information it gives you of
the users that are coming to your
website so once we install the insight
tag on our website we are going to have
this
tab open up to us called website
demographics and the data that lives in
this website demographics report makes
linkedin ads so amazing for b2b
advertisers we are going to be able to
understand what are the company names of
the of the individuals that are are
going to our website from linkedin
what are the job functions the
seniorities the job titles the
industries so much rich information that
is going to become available to you once
we install that insight tag in addition
to that you're also going to be able to
build your remarketing audience so at
linkedin's inside tag will live on your
website people who click from your ad to
your website will get cookied and then
you'll be able to remarket those users
so the insight tag is extremely valuable
so let's go ahead and set that up so we
can get those demographics we can build
our remarketing pool and we can also set
up conversion tracking so we're gonna go
to account assets here insight tag and
then we're gonna click see my insight
tag
now we have to actually install it for
the first time if you already have it
installed it would show up there as an
option
and there's some different ways you can
do this you can install it yourself by
hard coding it into your website don't
recommend this option
you can send it to a developer so if you
just want to send it to a developer you
can send it to them by email the tag and
they can install it or you can use the
third option which is using google tag
manager
or any other different type of tag
manager whether it's telia adobe i
highly recommend google tag manager it's
super easy to use and if you want to be
an effective v2b advertiser google tag
manager is a tool that
learning it will open up so many
possibilities for you so if you're not
familiar with google tag manager highly
recommend that you check out a course
look up some youtube videos it's super
easy to use
of course is a learning curve at first
but it's it's really amazing in terms of
being able to install tracking pixels
set up events so much amazing stuff with
google tag manager so with that being
said i'm actually going to use google
tag manager and i'm going to show you me
installing the inside tag
again it won't be a full-on google tag
manager tutorial but you'll get the gist
so i'm going to go ahead and copy my
partner id here and i'm going to open up
google tag manager i've already
installed google tag measure my website
and i've already created different tags
i'm going to create a new tag here
i'm going to call this
linkedin
insight
tag
i'm going to
set up my tag configuration here so
google tag manager will have preset
tag types for different platforms so if
you actually go here and search linkedin
you can see they have one with linkedin
as well so i'm going to click linkedin
insight
and i'm just going to drop in my tag id
that we copied here
and then if you click on advanced
settings you can do some some advanced
stuff i'm going to go ahead and ignore
that for the sake of this video
just putting the insight tag id is all
you need i'm gonna go ahead and trigger
and i want this to fire on all pages so
that's it simple as that we have our tag
all pages so we want this to tag every
single person that comes to our website
regardless of the page they visit and
i'm gonna save that
then we are going to submit this you
should always preview before you
submitting it's a best practice with
google tag manager but for the sake of
keeping this video short i'm gonna just
publish it
and i'm gonna put here added
linkedin pixel
and i'm gonna publish this change
now that i installed the linkedin pixel
on my website there's actually a really
great chrome extension that i recommend
you check out if you want to verify that
your pixel is firing properly the inside
tag so if you go ahead and search
linkedin pixel helper on the google
chrome extension store
this chrome extension is really helpful
just to verify that your insight tag is
firing properly so you can see here my
partner id of 365 6292 is firing it's
green that means it's good so we have
installed the inside tag properly so now
as we drive users to our website uh you
know linkedin is gonna pick up that
activity if we go back here to
the linkedin ads manager i'm gonna go
ahead and click agree and continue
we're gonna be able to see under web
demographics the linkedin insight
activity
now that we installed our insight tag
the last remaining step for us to
complete is to create and set up our
conversion tracking to do so we're going
to click on account assets conversions
and here's we're going to be able to
track all the different conversion
events so what you determine is a
conversion is 1 000 up to you and your
goals and your company if you want to
measure people that signed up for your
free trial or people that completed a
demo form or people that you know opted
in for some content you can set up those
different conversion actions here in the
conversions page so i'm going to click
on create a conversion we're going to
give this conversion a name of course
name it based on the action you want
people to complete so in my case i'm
going to track people that sign up for
my newsletter so i'm going to call it
newsletter
sign up you can put demo free trial
whatever makes sense for your action
then from here we're going to choose the
type and what this reflects you can see
linkedin has all these different options
here i'm going to select sign up as it's
the most congruent with my action here
if you know what this conversion is
worth to you in terms of uh value
like for example this is
best for like purchases so if you know
every single conversion represents x
amount in revenue you can put that value
here if not you can leave it blank here
is where we get to set our attribution
window so by default
linkedin optins to a 30-day
click-through window and a seven-day
view through window so what does that
mean essentially this means that with a
30-day click through window
anybody that has interacted with your
ads so anybody that clicked through your
ad and then converted at a later point
within this 30-day window would be
considered a conversion so for example
let's say i clicked on an ad
and then 29 days later within this
30-day window i convert and take this
action i would be considered
a conversion based on this click-through
window
same thing with view-through only
difference is instead of clicking i was
served an impression and that's what
they consider a view so within six let's
say on day one i saw the ad i was served
an impression and then on day six i
actually converted and took this action
i would be considered a view through
conversion
now how you determine your attribution
window is 100 based on
what does the average
conversion cycle look like for your
organization so if it's on you know and
a really helpful report here if you've
already been running these conversion
events is the time lag report in google
analytics but just to keep it really
simple i like to do 30 days so i know
any anybody within this cohort of month
to date whether it's a click through or
view through i will be willing to
consider them a a conversion now if you
want to be very very spec very strict
and only have conversions be registered
in your ads account based on like last
touch within a very short period you can
set a one day click through
um conversion attribution window so you
know like if it's it's marked a
conversion in your ads account it's
somebody that literally took that action
within a day and then the same thing for
view through so this is the most strict
and the most specific
where i am a little bit more lenient
with the attribution models here is
when
i'm doing things such as like un-gated
content i love using longer view through
conversions or longer click-through
conversions because i'm playing a longer
game if you're just trying to drive like
direct response lead gen then setting
your attribution window a little bit
shorter will probably make the most
sense but again 100 up to you so in my
case
rule of thumb i usually default it to 30
days i know within this month-to-day
cohort this is how i'm measuring a
conversion
now the next thing is setting your
attribution model linkedin is very
archaic in terms of the attribution
models they support they're not very
flexible everything is last touch so
unlike google where you have time decay
first touch position base all these
other models linkedin only has last
touch so by default it's last touch each
campaign you can also have last touch
last campaign so meaning it will only
consider a conversion if it was the last
touch from the last campaign versus last
touch
for each campaign
i like each campaign it's a little bit
more flexible so i just leave it as the
default there if we have any campaigns
that we've created you can select those
campaigns and associate this conversion
action to them we don't have anything so
it's blank so we're going to skip that
and then the next part is actually
defining how we want to track
conversions so whether it's based on the
insight tag that we just installed or if
it's based on an event specific pixel
now if you have a dedicated thank you
page of where the people that completed
the conversion action that you're
tracking are being sent to such as like
uh you know
demo dash thank you for a demo redirect
or a free trial page that they're going
to after signing up this is where you
know setting your conversion
definition based on a page load makes a
lot of sense so essentially you would
just put in here the thank you page url
that people are being redirected to
after taking your conversion action and
then anybody that
went to your landing page filled out
your form and then got directed to that
thank you page would be considered a
conversion based on
the attribution windows that we just set
up the next thing is an event specific
pixel so event specific pixels are a
little bit more complicated because
you're going to need something like
google tag manager to set this up but
where you may want to use an event
specific pixel versus a insight tag
related conversion
is
based on a specific like trigger so
if you're not sending people to a
dedicated thank you page and let's say
based on that form completion people are
getting redirected to your home page
it's a very
you know non-unique page very heavy
populated traffic uh page on your site
this is where an event specific pixel
will be a lot help more helpful because
you can set it in google tag manager
based on form trigger and not actually
you know page load so a lot more
flexibility in terms of event specific
but also a little bit more technical in
terms of the setup
now
for the sake of simplicity i'm going to
use the insight tag based on page load
because if you sign up for my newsletter
you're getting directed to a dedicated
thank you page and that pink thank you
page has think dash you in it
so i'm just going to put think dash you
and i'm going to change this to contains
so anybody that
gets directed to the thank you page
which is unique again to this newsletter
sign up they will be considered a
conversion so i'm going to click create
here
and now we have our newsletter signup
conversion goal set up and we don't have
any campaigns associated with this but
once we build our campaign we're going
to be able to associate those new
campaigns with this conversion action
now that we finalize our tracking let's
go ahead and move on to creating
audiences in linkedin ads so to do so
you're going to click on account assets
and then drop down to matched audiences
now one of the great reasons b2b
marketers love linkedin advertising is
their targeting capabilities and one of
the
most advantageous ones for b2b marketers
is the ability to target based on
companies so account lists if you click
on create audience here you can see we
have the ability to upload a list based
on company or contacts which is amazing
because if you try to do this on other
ad channels such as google or facebook
they only accept contacts and not
companies so by uploading a list based
on companies we can upload a list based
on company name and domain to be able to
layer that into our campaigns for uh you
know account based marketing versus if
you're doing facebook or google you have
to source those primary contacts or
associated contacts
and it's a much bigger
lift in terms of being able to target
your account lists through those
channels so i'm going to go ahead and
click on upload a list by company or
contact
give this audience a name so whatever
the name of this if it's contact list or
an account list and then you would just
download the company list template or
the contact list template and then just
upload it
and it would take 48 hours to match so
once you upload that audience it'll take
48 hours to match
for linkedin tv to find the amount of
people on the linkedin platform that
correspond and match to that that source
audience that you uploaded
another great audience that we can
create is retargeting audiences whether
it's based on events so people
interacting with your linkedin events
the legion forum so people that
completed your legion form
company page visitors so anybody that
visited your company page profile
video
so if anybody
watched 25
of your video ad 50 75 97 this is
amazing for
especially if you're doing ungated
content and you're driving you know
let's say video views for a podcast or a
youtube video and you want to re-target
people based on consumption of those
videos you can do some really cool
retargeting audiences here with that
if you want to retarget people based on
website activity so this is like a
remarketing audience that essentially i
recommend everyone kind of has
so essentially anybody that's visited
your website in the last 180 days
and to create this it would just be as
simple as putting in your domain name
so anybody that's matched a url that
contains my root domain of
addconversion.io
will fall under this audience and i'm
going to go ahead and create that
so we have this audience here
and you can always click on the audience
and update the criteria so if you wanted
to get a little bit more specific
you can do that with these conditions
here so we just created a all visitors
audience
we can create another audience of
company page visitors so it'll pull in
your company page
and we can do the same thing
and i'm going to call this company
visits
and i'm going to do the past 180 days so
people who visited your organization
page or or people actually clicked on
your cta button so i'm going to click on
create here so we just created those two
remarketing audiences some other
audiences that i highly recommend that
you always create is not just thinking
about the targeting but also the
exclusion more so the exclusion at times
so for example if we are going to be
promoting demo requests we should create
an audience
of individuals that
that took us up on that offer so if
they're getting sent to a specific thank
you page we should create a website
remarketing audience based on that
specific thank you page and consider an
exclusion so for example we would
exclude
uh it could be legion form completions
or you know actual landing page
completion so anybody that
you know
in the last 90 days
completed a demo let's go ahead and
exclude those people and you can name it
however you want this is just a naming
convention i like to follow
and we can do the past 180 days 90 days
60 30 however you want to set that that
conversion window
so
we would just simply put the
the landing page url so in our case we
are tracking
the the newsletter signups so i'm going
to do newsletter
sign ups because i want to exclude those
individuals and i'm just going to drop
in the same url
that people are getting
sent to so in my case it was think
dash u
so anybody that has that in the url i
want to exclude them
and this is going to be what we would
call a burn audience
next another great audience for you to
create
is
any
existing close one customers so if you
can pull a contact list audience from
salesforce or whatever your crm is
and upload that as an audience as an
exclusion you can exclude any existing
customers that's a really good example
of an audience that you should consider
creating
and you can also create dynamic
audiences so there's different um you
know marketing technologies out there
like for example hubspot has an
integration with linkedin and you can
create dynamic
account based audiences so you can do
this um
you know on a dynamic version so you
don't have to constantly recreate these
audiences but for the sake of simplicity
and everything available within linkedin
this is how you would create these
different audiences so go ahead and
create your audiences whether it's based
on company or contacts
whether it's just based on you know
remarketing of company or website visits
but
really think through the audiences that
you want to target and exclude again
existing customers close lost
opportunities
um you know
people that completed that conversion
action right so if somebody signed up
for a demo let's stop showing them ads
around the demo so really think through
those audiences and this is where you're
going to be able to use
linkedin's audience capability to create
those different audiences based on all
these different data sources that they
support hope you're finding this video
valuable if you'd like more content
around linkedin ads be sure to give this
video a thumbs up and drop a comment
down below now that we've gone through
all the different aspects within our
linkedin ads account let's go ahead and
launch our first campaign so i'm going
to select on my campaign group here and
i'm going to click create and then
campaign
and this is going to open up the
campaign wizard now first thing you're
going to notice is we have to name our
campaign here on the top left and then
select our campaign group
highly recommend that you always follow
a campaign naming convention for all of
your campaigns and there's really three
things that really make a great campaign
naming convention number one is that
it's versatile so if you do have to make
some changes it's not going to break
your entire campaign name
especially if you're using utm campaigns
the second is that it is repeatable you
want to make sure you're using this
again and again and then lastly is that
as it's descriptive it's really
important that your campaign name is
descriptive enough for you to understand
what this campaign is who are you
targeting and what are you promoting and
then also if you download all your
campaigns into an excel report it's
going to make your life even easier to
be able to filter by your different
campaign names so in my case i'm going
to use a very simple campaign naming
convention that i recommend that you use
and that you can you know use this to
get started and then eventually just
take what works for you and leave what
doesn't so the first piece of our
campaign naming convention is going to
be the location or region so in my case
it's going to be the united states of
america
the next one is going to be the actual
offer itself what are we promoting here
so i'm going to be using an example of
promoting
this video that you're watching and i
want my icp to watch this video
promote like a small clip so that way
they can watch the whole thing on
youtube so i'm going to call it linkedin
ads tutorial for you that could be demo
requests that could be free trial that
could be a webinar name that could be a
live event whatever it is and then the
next thing is going to be your actual
targeting criteria so if that's job
titles and skills if that's job function
and seniority if that's uh job titles
and member groups if that's a specific
account list if that specific industry
whatever that makeup is that combination
linkedin has so many different options
which we're going to get into in a
second
just outline what the targeting makeup
is for this campaign so specifically for
this campaign i'm going to be creating
an audience based on job titles
and member skills so i'm going to call
this titles
and skills if i wanted to get even more
granular i could break out each campaign
and assuming the audience size is large
enough where i could have one campaign
targeting you know this specific job
title and then another campaign
targeting another specific job title and
then i can see which job title converts
better this is really powerful
especially if you're trying to validate
a specific persona but in my case i'm
going to keep it simple versatile
and descriptive where i know its titles
and skills
and then last but not least is the
actual the creative type is it a video
is it a carousel is it an image in my
case it's going to be video you can put
whatever that is for you is it video
carousel image conversation
so you can go and outline that there so
this is a very simple campaign naming
convention it is versatile it's
descriptive and it is repeatable i can
follow this again and again so now that
we have that set i'm going to click next
and i'm going to choose my campaign
objective now linkedin breaks out their
objectives based on the stage of the
funnel very similar to facebook actually
so you can see they have awareness which
is brand awareness consideration and
conversions now each objective on its
own there are strategies and playbooks
in mind of what you can run i just want
to talk through very high level for b2b
marketers
what i have seen just you know over
managing over seven figures in ad spend
for clients
what is the most common and when what
you should be thinking about leveraging
first so if you are trying to drive
conversions if you want people to you
know fill out a demo form sign up for a
free trial
sign up for a webinar anything where
they have to give you their information
you're going to be living in the
conversion section column so you're
going to be using lead generation and
web conversions now lead generation
campaigns
they use native lead forms so when
somebody clicks on your ad the lead form
will pop up within the linkedin news
feed and it'll come pre-populated with a
lot of the prospects information based
on their linkedin profile and then the
web conversions objective is when they
click on your ad it's going to drive
them to your
your form page so for example if your
landing page is your demo page with your
form on it it'll drive people to your
demo page and and try to drive people
that are going to actually convert on
your demo page so the biggest difference
here is this one all conversions happen
natively within the platform the
prospect never leaves and this one the
prospect clicks on your ad and gets sent
to your landing page where they have to
convert
highly recommend testing both objectives
you can do one campaign with one
objective one campaign with the other
and see which one works best for you but
in my experience lead generation usually
is the best option for most b2b
organizations because their landing
pages their native landing page
conversion rates are just
not as good as compared to those lead
forms now the biggest downside with lead
generation and using lead forms could be
quality but really making sure that
you're building a solid audience which
we're going to get into the next section
and really making sure that you're using
exclusions
that's going to really help you with
lead quality and then also on your form
itself you can do things like adding
qualifying questions custom consent
check boxes and that could be a whole
video in itself so if you want more
content around
legion forms and you know getting higher
quality leads let me know in the
comments down below but these are the
two objectives that i really recommend
you use so if you're trying to drive
demo trials any conversion objectives
leverage these now important to note
because you're using conversion
objectives your costs will be higher
you'll have higher cpms higher cpcs as
you're
having linkedin optimized towards an
objective that is very expensive so
that's just something to note
now if you're trying to drive content
whether that's videos or to an article
of some sort if you're ever going to do
video content i highly recommend you use
the video views objective as this is
going to optimize towards getting people
to actually watch your video and then
you can create a remarketing audience of
people that watched you know 50 75
percent of that actual video so you can
retarget them so in my case i'm going to
use video views but if you're trying to
drive people to an actual blog for an
example then you can use web visits to
get linkedin to optimize to driving
people for the lowest cost possible to
your website and then another really
good one is engagement now engagement is
going to have linkedin optimized towards
people to interact with your ads and
i've actually found that engagement has
been outperforming website visits in
terms of lower cost per clicks and
higher ctrs in terms of getting people
to your actual web to actual landing
pages so really the takeaway here is
keep in mind your goals and then use an
objective that is going to reinforce
those goals and then don't get
pigeonholed into just one objective this
is where a lot of
companies fall short on linkedin ads
they just use one objective
test multiple objectives that you'd be
surprised at sometimes different
objectives
used with certain creative and certain
offers can convert really well so for
example you can use video views and
actually drive
uh you know conversions and getting
people to sign up now that's not what
it's going to optimize towards but there
are use cases where things like that
work so don't
you know don't
feel restricted test and see what works
best for you for brand awareness a
really good use case for this is if you
have a live event and you have a very
short deadline and you want to get in
front of an audience and you want to
saturate that audience as much as
humanly possible within a short time
frame brand awareness could be really
good if you have like a a two week
window and you want to make sure
everyone within a specific account list
sees your ads this is where something
like brand awareness can come into play
so i'm going to select video views
and now we're going to actually create
our audience so key thing to keep in
mind here is this forecast here on the
right it's going to show you different
spend thresholds and impression counts
based on 1 7 or 30 days to be honest i
don't really pay any mind to this
really the only thing i care about here
is the actual audience size
so what is a good audience size really
comes down to
your goal are you promoting you know are
you trying to offer a gift card to get
people to sign up for a demo then you're
gonna want a really specific and tight
audience are you trying to just get in
front of you know as much of your tam as
possible then you can have a large
audience but as a general rule of thumb
i always recommend uh 50 to 250 000 as
an audience size so anything more than
250 is usually an opportunity to get a
little bit more specific combine more
different um characteristics together so
that way your audience is a lot more uh
you know targeted and precise
so let's go ahead and run through these
options so number one is where is your
target audience so in my case it's going
to be the united states but really
important a trap a lot of people fall
into is they'll have recent or permanent
when they're only trying to reach people
that actually live in that location so
i'm going to go ahead and select
permanent so i'm only reaching people
that actually live in the united states
of america so i'm going to close that
next is to narrow our target audience
and by the way if you did have recent or
permanent and let's say you you know you
want to be a little more flexible there
but you want to make sure you're
excluding certain locations that's where
this exclude people in other locations
can come into play
another really cool option too that
people don't really
test is languages on linkedin so you can
target people based on what their
different profile languages are set to
and this is something that like
probably like only like point zero two
percent of uh linkedin advertisers
especially in the b2b space are
testing but for most people they're
going to default to english here but
just understand that you can target
based on different profile languages
and and see hey if we try targeting
people based on danish and we have
danish ads and danish landing pages can
we get cost breaks
make sure to always deselect audience
expansion 99 of the time unless it's
intentional it's that one percent of the
time and you just want to test to see if
audience expansion does work better for
you
then go ahead and leave it enabled but
for most
companies usually having audience
expansion
deselected will result in better
performance and essentially audience
expansion what it is is it's going to
take your audience
criteria that you just built and then
linkedin is going to go to try to find
people that look similar to that and it
sounds great in theory but in practice
it usually doesn't perform as good so as
a general best practice and rule of
thumb highly recommend you deselect this
especially us as b2b marketers we're
only interested in a very specific
universe
now let's go ahead and narrow in our
target audience this is really where the
magic happens narrowing our audience and
excluding our audience exclusions are
probably i don't want to say
as important probably almost more
important than who you narrow your
audience as so really important to make
sure that we're always excluding so
let's go and start off with narrowing
here
and these are linkedin's different
options so
we can target based on the audiences
that we built so going back to the meta
match audience section when if you
uploaded a list of companies or you
uploaded a list of contacts you can
target those specific companies if
you're trying to do any account based
marketing
um any lookalike audiences you can
target retargeting audiences so in our
case we created that site visitors
audience so if i wanted to target people
that were within this you know
remarketing audience i can do so here
you can see i don't have a large enough
audience size so i can't deploy any
campaigns against this but assuming i
did i could target this remarketing list
and if you have any third party company
or contact list so this is usually if
you're using like a
a third-party abm tool
they'll
directly import their audience into your
linkedin ads manager and some of them
also have like dynamic integrations
which is really cool so you can do a
dynamic integration of
third-party companies so it's just
dynamically pulling from salesforce and
things like that so a lot of cool tools
out there to help you in terms of
getting in front of your icp
now you can go ahead and select whatever
you want if you are trying to do an abm
campaign here make sure you select your
company list
in my case i'm going to leave that blank
and i'm just going to use linkedin's
native targeting criteria which is this
second option here of audience
attributes highly recommend that you
just go through each one of these
sections and familiarize yourself with
it and just write down different ideas
that come to mind of combinations so
that way you can target your icp now
again remember audience size you don't
want your audience size to be too small
as it's going to hurt deliverability but
you also don't want to be too big where
you're going to get the wrong people so
50 to 250 is a good rule of thumb i know
people that like to be even more
specific than that and keep it under 100
really it's up to you and your level of
tolerance but just understand the larger
the audience generally speaking the more
broad it's going to be the less specific
the tighter the audience the smaller it
is the more specific
so you can see here we have company
demographics education job experience
interest and traits so company here
really cool if you want to target
specific company names or industries you
can do that so if you wanted to run like
an expansion campaign for an example
let's say you're going to go after
people that work at coca-cola you can
target coca-cola as a company and only
target people that work at coca-cola and
then you can also go to job experience
and layer in seniorities of let's say
you know
director vpcxo um so a lot of cool plays
that you can do on linkedin and i can do
full videos on on different strategies
and stuff but essentially just go
through these different options and
build an audience that
is specific take a look at your audience
size make sure that it's at least under
250 000 and and build out that audience
so in my case i'm going to do an
audience of job titles and member skills
this is probably one of the most
specific audiences you can build on
linkedin ads as you're saying i want to
target these specific job titles but
they must also have these skills listed
on their profile which is extremely
specific and depending on the job titles
you're going after it could be a little
bit too specific and you have a very
little audience size but for my case i
know that my job titles are a little bit
broader
so i can make it work so for example i'm
going to target people that have head of
marketing as a title i want to target
chief marketing officers
and i want to target
demand gen
marketers
so specialist manager head associate all
this is good for me and i want to target
people that have growth marketing titles
so growth marketing manager marketing
director so all this is great now in my
case my icp is i'm not just trying to go
after any person in marketing i want to
go after somebody that works in
marketing that has these titles but also
works in the b2b world so i'm going to
narrow this audience further and i'm
going to narrow it by combining member
skills so i'm going to go back
here to interest and traits or i'm
actually sorry uh job experience member
skills
and then this is where i'm gonna
like filter this audience to be based on
specific b2b related skills so for
example b2b marketing
if they have a job title of head of
marketing and a member skill of b2b
marketing chances of them being my icp
are very high i could even layer in
different ones so for example demand
generation
or
let's say
sas like software right
all these
skills if they have these titles and
these skills is going to be very
relevant to the type of person and the
persona that i'm going after so
very important to note is to keep your
eye on this audience size now something
else that's very helpful to really make
sure you're getting in front of the
right audience is if you click show
segments you can break down what this
audience makeup is based on the function
the seniority the industries the
interests the company size so for
example
in this case
22 percent of my audience is between 11
and 50. 16 is 10 000 plus so if you
wanted to go after specific market
segments like emerging mid-market or
enterprise you can narrow your audience
further based on company size
so what i want to look at here is
function and i want to make sure that
i'm only targeting people within the
marketing function so you can see 18 of
my audience falls into biz dev nine
percent sales so i don't want to target
anyone in sales so this is where we're
going to move over to our exclusions and
i'm going to exclude people
based on these functions so i'm going to
go here to audience attributes
experience
and you're gonna see
we can't
so linkedin has limitations based on
combinations so if i'm targeting job
titles i cannot exclude based on
functions so a great way to get around
this limitation of when you're targeting
my job titles and you want to exclude
people that fall into these different
functions is to use member skills
so i'm going to exclude people that have
member skills of sales
business development
and consulting
from my
targeting
so this is like a a workaround
essentially so that i can get away and
get you know
not in front of those people now you can
see my audience size just tanked uh down
to 7 600
from the uh you know the 100 000 plus
that i was at
so i'm going to
remove consulting as a lot of these
marketers have consulting as a as a
skill
and i'm just going to leave the
exclusion to sales and business
development and now you can see my
audience size dropped down to 9600 which
is really really specific and almost
probably
too specific so what i want to do here
is i want to make a decision
do i continue with job titles and skills
and understand that i'm going to have a
really really small audience but it's
going to be a very high quality audience
or do i go ahead and add in more job
titles which is what i will do
or do i go ahead and switch this over to
something a little bit more broad such
as like job functions and seniorities so
the downside of
using job titles is it's so specific and
the fact that i'm layering in skills
makes it even more specific so
a remedy here is to leverage something
like job function and seniority so that
way i can get in front of people that
reflect my icp that are those decision
makers but not just doing it based on a
specific title which is very hard
because people are changing their titles
all the time
so in my case i'm actually going to
pivot here
for the sake of example of this video
and i'm going to switch this
to
job functions so i want to go after
people that are in the marketing
department
and they have these member skills
but
if i wanted to be a little bit more
specific i can also layer in seniority
so i could say seniorities
of
you know
senior manager
director vp cxo
owner partner etc now important to note
you see how my audience size just jumped
up to 440 000 that's because it has or
always make sure you switch this to and
so that way it's all these different
combinations together so and
the seniorities so i'm not actually
happy with this this is a pretty tight
audience but it's very high quality so
i'm going to go ahead and run with this
and i'm actually going to change my
naming convention now to reflect these
changes
so i did here i did job function
i did job function i did skills
and
seniority
so this is a very easy way for me to
understand this tutorial is targeting
people that have job function skills and
seniority
you can get even more specific than this
and list out those functions in the
campaign name i know people that do that
but again i like my campaign aims to be
versatile so that's why i have it like
this but do whatever works for you
so now that we have our targeting dialed
in it's pretty on point
we can go ahead and move into our ad
format so because i selected the video
views objective i only have a video ad
here as an option
now
another trap to avoid is enabling the
linkedin audience network this is going
to make it so that your ads are not
showing on linkedin and they're also
showing on linkedin's affiliated
websites so i'm going to deselect this
because i only want to show ads to
people in the linkedin platform
next up is budget and schedule so here
we can select our daily budget so in my
case i want to spend 50 a day
and we can set a schedule so if i want
this to you know start and end
um so in my case i want this video
promotion to only go for
until the 18th so i'm going to select
that as my end date
optimization goal so you can do max
delivery which is automated bidding or
target cost where you set a specific
condition in my case because it's video
views i don't mind max delivery it
usually works well for me where i
recommend that you do manual bidding
versus automated bidding is for those
conversion objectives such as legion or
web conversions
because
they'll linkedin will usually have you
pay more
with automated bidding and you can get
cost breaks by setting a manual bid so
if i actually click target cost uh like
a
a well-known hack in the linkedin ads
world is if you actually put like
a very low amount
so for example if i put
uh point zero one
linkedin will tell you what your floor
bid must be so in this case the floor
bid the minimum i must bid is you know
0.04
so
you can start 20 higher than this and
gradually raise your bids over time and
then find the balance between you're
getting enough reach or getting enough
visibility but you're also not paying
premium costs that has a slower ramp
time a slower scale time than if you use
automated bidding but it's 100 up to you
so i'm gonna go ahead and select
automated bidding for my objective here
and then last but not least is you want
to select your conversions so remember
we selected we created our conversions
here this is where it's going to tie in
so i'm going to select my conversion
action of newsletter sign up so that way
if somebody signs up for my newsletter
that watch the video it'll get shown up
it'll show up as an actual conversion
here now this is not my primary goal
with this campaign and this objective as
i'm just trying to get people to watch
the video
but if anybody does sign up for my
newsletter that that consumed this video
it would show up as a click through or a
view through conversion
now that's it we have all of our
different campaign settings set up one
final note that i will say is in terms
of additional exclusions here
you know make sure you're excluding
people if you're doing conversion
campaigns you're excluding people that
did what you want them to do so you're
excluding if it's a legion campaign
you're excluding legion submissions if
it's a um
you know another good practices you're
excluding any closed one opportunities
you're excluding any close loss
opportunities if you're trying to reach
net new uh you're excluding your company
name so for example if i go here to
audience attributes company
company names search your company name
and make sure your employees are not
seeing your ads you can also exclude
your competitors so really dialing in
your audience and your combinations and
keeping in mind your audience size and
the breakdown of that audience is really
going to make sure that you're getting
in front of the right people
so now that i have all this set up i'm
going to go ahead and click next save
and then now we're going to go ahead and
click create new ad now important to
note
if you want to be testing you should
always be testing in in any channel you
should have multiple variations of ads
whether that's different
you know different copy or different
creative
but
a trap that a lot of people fall into is
they'll create different variations of
ads but they don't have
linkedin rotate their ads evenly so what
you end up happening is is you have one
ad that has a thousand dollars to spend
and all the other ads get no spent so
what you want to do is you want to
select this gear icon and you want to
switch it from optimize for performance
to rotate your ads evenly and this will
ensure that every ad within your
campaign gets a fighting chance to
perform and then from there you can
pause the ads that are not performing
based on your conditions now let's go
ahead and create our ad i'm going to
click create new ad and then here we're
going to give this ad a name a simple
convention i like to follow
is the actual offer itself and then t1
and then v1 so t1 being copy variation
one so text one and then v1 being video
one so if we have multiple videos video
one video two video three if it was a
carousel ad i would put c if it was an
image ad i would put i this is a simple
convention i like to follow
in terms of the introductory text i'm
going to go ahead and drop this in
just simple benefit driven copy calling
out my icp b2b marketers and then what
they can expect from this
video and then we're going to upload the
video file here if it was images you'd
upload the creative file for images or
carousels whatever media type you chose
so i'm going to go ahead and pause here
and upload my video once you upload your
creative you're going to see on the
right hand side a preview option to see
your creative in either the desktop or
mobile news feed so you can see both
devices and understand more or less how
is your ad gonna look which is very
helpful especially when it comes to your
copy i really like try to make it where
you know ideally on linkedin you want to
have short benefit driven copy where
people do not have to click to see more
and they can kind of see everything here
but that could be something to test you
can test short form copy versus long
form copy
and see what the data tells you
now once you have your creative uploaded
we just have to drop in a headline and a
destination url so i'm going to go ahead
and grab the headline here that i wrote
out already
and i'm going to drop in the destination
url
you can use emojis in your headline you
know uh to make it a little bit more
compelling all different things worth
testing
and we can see our headline here and
then we just have to finalize our call
to action button so in my case i'm just
going to go with learn more but you can
choose the one that's
most relevant for you
and
we are set so now i'm going to click
create
and we have our video here now if i
actually click on these three dots and
once the ad is done processing we can
preview it and see it in the linkedin
newsfeed and and get a better
understanding of what it looks like
another pro tip you can do here is you
can actually once your ad is processed
and approved you can preview it and then
like the video yourself from your
business page and and already start to
kick off the social engagement on that
ad so that's it once we have our ad
created go ahead and just duplicate
variations of that ad
so for example we're going to test
different copy here i would switch this
over to text 2. you can name it whatever
you want and then i can do a different
version of introductory text here so
maybe instead of this it's leading with
a question you know
do you struggle
with linkedin ads
right or are you trying to get started
with linkedin ads etc you know whatever
whatever is relevant and we can do
different variations of copy or
different variations of headlines
in terms of what i recommend that you
start with is ideally you test different
variations of creative first and then
copy but if if creative is a challenge
for you then you can start with copy and
then creative or vice versa
so i recommend you at least have three
ads testing per campaign and making sure
again that you're rotating your ads
evenly so you can allow each variation
to
uh essentially battle it out and see
which one performs best for you
and then once we're done here and we've
created our different variations of ads
just go ahead and click next
and it's just going to show you
everything that you've done so just a
quick recap we have an audience size of
33 000. we ended up going with job
function skills and seniorities over
titles and skills because our reach was
a little bit too specific for this
campaign we're targeting people in the
us
these are the seniorities these are the
skills our function
we're excluding people with these sales
oriented skills
we're using an ad we disabled the
audience network we're going to run this
50 a day over this time frame and then
once complete we'll just click launch
campaign
and that's it we're set any other
campaigns we want to create once you
have that base campaign created that
initial campaign so in this case we have
this
campaign of job function skills and
seniority you really easy thing to do is
just duplicate the campaign
and then it'll copy over everything we
just did so for example i can copy this
name here
and let's say for this campaign instead
of job function skills and seniority we
want to do a different audience let's
say we want to do member groups
so we'll call this uh groups
and let's say groups
and job function
we can click next we can copy over the
same creative
very important when you're duplicating
campaigns that are using the same
creative you just select the same
creative and you can verify that they
all have the same creative id
and then this way that campaign shares
post engagement so that way all of your
ads
are the same one and there and none of
that social engagement goes away which
is great for building credibility and
social proof on your ad so from here you
can see all of our
audience criteria
was carried over
and we can go ahead
and just make some quick edits so for
example if this one we want to do
member groups
and job function i can get rid of
the skills and then just you know add in
groups for an example or whatever
changes that we want to make also
another thing to note as well is when
you do have an audience that you like
and you want to use it again and again
across different campaigns the downside
of duplicating campaigns is it's going
to duplicate the objective and the ad
type but let's say i wanted to use the
same audience build but for a
conversation ad campaign i can actually
go ahead and click save audience here
and it'll save my audience build so when
i go to create a new campaign from
scratch i can just select that audience
that i saved and it'll pre-populate all
the information for me hope this video
was valuable be sure to check out these
two videos here give this video a thumbs
up and subscribe for future uploads
until the next video take care